Handle Push Notifications in Dart, including background messages, notification taps (#166)
ably/ably-flutter: CONTRIBUTING.md

of the [Error class](https://api.dart.dev/stable/2.4.0/dart-core/Error-class.html), as this is perhaps more
appropriate for programmer's failures on the Dart side of things. But time will tell.

### Push Notifications 

> #### Debugging the app from launch

Reviewer: It would be really nice to have screenshots for both iOS and Android here!

Author: 3765af68a76229b6c66afe1e975c815d598df9a4

- Android: Go into developer options and use the "Wait for debugger" option. Launch the app from the Flutter project (not the `android` directory) in Android Studio. Then in the Android project in Android Studio, attach the debugger.
- iOS: In Xcode, build the Xcode app scheme with launch option: "Wait for the executable to be launched" instead of "Automatically". You need to repeat this for every launch. Then "Attach Flutter" in Android Studio or CLI if you want to, as well. 

#### Push Notifications activation / deactivation

> The platform SDKs ([ably-android](https://github.com/ably/ably-java), [ably-cocoa](https://github.com/ably/ably-cocoa)) provide ways to check if device activation, deactivation or registration update fails. On Android, these errors are sent in Intents which you should register for at runtime. In Cocoa, your errors are provided through `ARTPushRegistererDelegate` methods. However, this error does not get returned immediately/quickly in all cases. For example, if there was no internet connection, then `Push.activate()` will not throw an error, it will just block forever, because errors are not provided by the SDKs. Once an internet connection is made, the intent will be sent / delegate methods will be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The platform SDKs ([ably-android](https://github.com/ably/ably-java) and [ably-cocoa](https://github.com/ably/ably-cocoa)) enable you to check if device activation, deactivation, or registration update fails. On Android, these errors are sent in "intents" which you should register for at runtime. In Cocoa, your errors are provided through `ARTPushRegistererDelegate` methods. However, this error does not get returned immediately/quickly in all cases. For example, if there was no internet connection, then `Push.activate()` will not throw an error, it will just block forever, because errors are not provided by the SDKs. Once an internet connection is made, the intent will be sent / delegate methods will be called.
```

Reviewer: Also, it's not clear (at least to me) whether the text that starts "However, this error does not get returned..." applies to both Android and Cocoa, or just the latter.

Author: 642a0a5f5cada12e98ca0a52c809db26ad200bf5

Author: 642a0a5f5cada12e98ca0a52c809db26ad200bf5

> Implementation wise, we do this by passing a reference to the `FlutterResult` we can use to pass back the result, when. This makes it convenient for users: they can `await push.activate()`. However, they should not rely on this Future completing, in the case of network issues.

Reviewer: "Implementation wise" should be hyphenated, but I suggest not using it because it might not be clear to non-native English speakers.

Reviewer: Take care to capitalize only proper nouns (names of products, etc). E.g. "Future" and (above) "Intents"

Author: 11fd07566c967a2d64102a7d4dce52ad3ec587e5

#### Notification tap handling

> Android's firebase-messaging / FCM library allows users to select the Intent action used when the automatically generated notification is tapped by the user. You can do this by setting `fcm.notification.click_action` in Ably's push payload. However, for this to work, users would need to declare the intent action within their `AndroidManifest.xml`. Therefore, we don't really tell users they can modify `click_action` and configure it. However, they can do so if they wish.

Reviewer: allows -> enables ("Allows" implies permission)

automatically generated -> automatically-generated

Author: 598aca720af6c4956619fb5b817d16b2af4bef40

#### Notifications generation for Foreground Apps

> iOS allows users to show the notification even if the app is in the foreground, by calling a delegate method ([`userNotificationCenter(_:willPresent:withCompletionHandler:)`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/usernotifications/unusernotificationcenterdelegate/1649518-usernotificationcenter)) which the user can choose to show the message to the user, based on the notification content. FCM / Android does not provide this functionality. Users can only configure this behaviour for iOS, by using `PushNotificationEvents#setOnShowNotificationInForeground`. 

Reviewer: allows -> enables

Author: 51b737b98bad1ab4b394566a49b487f10fbb5a21

#### Push Notifications Background Message Handling

> Background processing in Flutter is a complicated subject that has not been explained very much in public. It involves creating Flutter Engines/isolates manually (for Android), passing messages back and forth, etc.

Reviewer: in public?

Author: Not sure what you mean. This is a contributing.md file.

Author: a6e241b12db9adc72b53311cc4073b95d3bcc298

Differences between ably-Flutter and Firebase Messaging implementation (Android only):

> - **Isolate code:** In Firebase Messaging, they explicitly define a callback which is launched in it's own isolate. We do not launch a custom entrypoint/ dart code, but instead re-use the user's default entrypoint (their app code), by using `DartExecutor.DartEntrypoint.createDefault()`. Therefore, we provide the same environment for message handling on both Android and iOS: their application **is running** when we handle the message.

Reviewer: Who is "they"?

it's -> its

Careful with spacing around "/" ... I've seen " / " and "/ ". Unless you can replace whatever "/" stands for with the word "or" then you really shouldn't be using it.

> - **Entrypoint:** In Firebase messaging, they explicitly define a new DartEntrypoint (e.g. A Callback which is launched in it's own isolate) which will be launched by the Dart VM. We do not launch our custom isolate / entrypoint, we re-use the users default entry point (their application). In Ably-Flutter, we use re-use the users main application. Therefore, we provide the same environment for message handling on both Android and iOS: their application **is running** when we handle the message.

Author: Actually, my language is incorrect. Callbacks != Entrypoints. We use the default entrypoint, where as Flutter uses a callback. They are for the same purpose: starting an isolate with specified dart code. Callback is a dart function, entrypoint is a top level main function.

Author: 215976dcaffff7f9a2e07ff5d1d7439b939c5dd7

> - **Entrypoint:** In Firebase messaging, they explicitly define a new DartEntrypoint (e.g. A Callback which is launched in it's own isolate) which will be launched by the Dart VM. We do not launch our custom isolate / entrypoint, we re-use the users default entry point (their application). In Ably-Flutter, we use re-use the users main application. Therefore, we provide the same environment for message handling on both Android and iOS: their application **is running** when we handle the message.

Author: dec7a62642434d8eb3d79a2f424269e76335aceb. Some issues were fixed by changes/improvements.

> - **Resource consumption tradeoffs:** Firebase launches an isolate capable of only handling messages at app launch, even if they don't need it. They keep this isolate launching throughout the app, and have a queue process to queue messages. To do this, they maintain an Android Service. This allows them 10 minutes of execution time, where as on iOS the same library only has 30 seconds of execution time. Instead, we launch a new isolate on every message if the application is not yet running. Instead of creating a service and queueing work for it for each message. FCM will hold the messages until we are ready anyway (they are our queue). A new message will spawn a new engine.

Reviewer: Again, we need to be clear about who "they" and "them" refers to.

And who is "we/they" here? Ably? "FCM will hold the messages until we are ready anyway (they are our queue)." Let's be specific about which parties we are talking about here.

> - **Resource consumption tradeoffs:** Firebase launches an isolate capable of only handling messages at app launch, even if they don't need it. They keep this isolate launching throughout the app, and have a queue process to queue messages. To do this, they maintain an Android Service. This allows them 10 minutes of execution time, where as on iOS the same library only has 30 seconds of execution time. Instead, we launch a new isolate on every message. Instead of creating a service and queueing work for it for each message. FCM will hold the messages until we are ready anyway (they are our queue). A new message will spawn a new engine.

Author: Sorry, I should have said 

> Instead, we launch a new isolate on every message if the application is **not** yet running.

Author: 8a790f2eb1990a0599d25c5aa614458708c96566

> - **Execution / wall clock time:** We have an execution time of 30 seconds on both Android and iOS for each message. Firebase messaging has an execution time of 10 minutes for all consecutive messages on Android between the service runs out of execution time, and 30 seconds on iOS. If users want more execution time, we recommend [package:workmanager](https://pub.dev/packages/workmanager).

Author: I need to test/ investigate this limitation further, by experimenting with Firebase messaging. What I mean is: Firebase messaging launches an Android Service (`FlutterFirebaseMessagingBackgroundService` which is a [JobIntentService](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/core/app/JobIntentService)) which hosts an Isolate. However, these services can't live forever, and have been documented to live around **10 minutes**:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/48630606/how-long-is-the-jobservice-execution-time-limit-mentioned-in-androids-jobinte

Once the service is stopped for going past its execution time limit, its not known if the service will be launched by Android immediately, or some time in the future. 

I didn't want to investigate Firebase messaging/ find a bug in it. I have elaborated that section in e5ac8443118b0000d936df8f70ed469138742b0a

> - **Execution / wall clock time:** We have an execution time of 30 seconds on both Android and iOS for each message. Firebase messaging has an execution time of 10 minutes for all consecutive messages on Android between the service runs out of execution time, and 30 seconds on iOS. If users want more execution time, we recommend [package:workmanager](https://pub.dev/packages/workmanager).

Reviewer 2: Nice. Thanks. 😄

> Because of this architectural simplicity, we do not need to use [`PluginUtilies`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/69208164/what-does-pluginutilities-do-in-flutters-dartui-library-and-how-do-i-use/69208165#69208165), pass references of 2 methods between Dart and platform side, or save / load these methods in `SharedPreferences`. We avoid conflicts between the default `FlutterEngine` launched in an `Activity` and by ourselves, by using separate method channels (unique channel names).

Reviewer: 1-10 should be spelled out, e.g. "two methods", not "2 methods"

"Dart and platform side" -> Dart and the platform

"We avoid conflicts between the default `FlutterEngine` launched in an `Activity` and by ourselves, by using separate method channels (unique channel names).". -> I'm not sure what the distinction between "we" and "ourselves" is in this sentence.
